Wilson Cai
Jianbo Chen
HR Huber-Rodriguez
Chenyu Wang

	Our final project for Statistics 243 was to create an adaptive rejection sampling (ARS) package in R, a process outlined by W.R. Gilks in his 19992 paper, “Derivative-free Adaptive Rejection Sampling for Gibbs Sampling.”  The code required to execute this process is inherently modular, and other steps including testing, packaging and plotting helped to distill the project into discrete components that could be worked on simultaneously by various members of the group.
	
	Wilson Cai served as the chief architect of the algorithm and the leader of the project.  Meeting with members individually and together, Wilson broke down the process into four critical sections and helped to make sure each group member was both involved in and informed of each section while maintaining leadership over one section in particular.  He also served as the chief manager of the GitHub repository and was the go-to member for coding questions and general outline.
	
  Wilson himself also wrote the invaluable and computationally difficult underlying code that computed the upper envelope piecewise function as well as the inverse sampling method, all in vectorized fashion.  He also offered guidance on vectorizing the rest of the  code, testing, formulating checks, warnings and error messages, and building the R package.
  
  HR Huber-Rodriguez was chiefly in charge of the second level of the function; the creation of the linear lower bound piecewise  function.  He was also responsible for implementing the squeezing and rejection steps of the rejection sampling process and for returning the ultimate vector of sampled points.  HR also tested the code on a variety of standard distributions and wrote the project’s final report.

  Jianbo Chen was responsible for writing the updating step of the function.  Because adaptive rejection sampling is often used when a density function is computationally expensive to evaluate, Jianbo proposed testing the code by evaluating a kernel density function, which can be found in the package manual.  He generated graphs and plots that more clearly demonstrate the process of adaptive rejection sampling, found at the end of this report.  Jianbo also offered suggestions on the vectorization of the code as well as ways to increase speed and efficiency.

  Chenyu Wang was chiefly responsible for compiling all the sections of code into one compact R package and writing the accompanying documentation.  She also designed the crucial check for log concavity, which is paramount to correct usage of the algorithm, by ensuing that the derivative of the left end-point was greater than the derivative of the right end-point, which in and of itself is no small  feat.
  As a whole, the project came together piece by piece, with group members often offering input on one another’s sections to ensure familiarity with the goal of the project as well as with the idiosyncrasies of individual sections of code, which would require tidy sutures in order to weave together one coherent algorithm and one effective R package.  
